Holy Bible Translation Workflow:

Step 1: Render Literal Majority‑Text Rendering and assign tone for each verse in a table.
Tone definition:
* Neutral: For verses that are informative or factual.
* Warm: For verses with emotional or spiritual emphasis.
* Mindful: For verses requiring additional reasoning or explanation for reader understanding.
* Controversial: For theologically debatable verses throughout history.


Step 2: Neutral Verses Analysis: Extract word variation differences from all chunks for the neutral toned verses and after analyzing them list the most concise version for each verse that does not impact ease of readability and understanding. List choice justification and improve on it if necessary.

Step 3: Warm Verses Analysis: Extract word variation differences for all chunks for the warm toned verses and after analyzing them list the most emotionally or spiritually impactful phrasing. List choice justification and improve on it if necessary.

Step 4: Mindful Verses Analysis: Extract word variation differences for all chunks for the mindful toned verses and after analyzing select the most clear, simple and reasonably understandable phrasing for the modern reader. List choice justification and improve on it if necessary.

Step 5: Controversial Verses Analysis: Extract word variation differences for all chunks for the debatable toned verses and after analyzing select the most contextually relevant phrasing. List choice justification and improve on it if necessary.

Step 6: Provide an interpretation from early church fathers and popular theology for the warm, mindful and controversial toned verses and summarize the findings of the analysis from Step 2 to Step 6 in a table to conclude briefly which word choices will be used in the final rendering of the translation.

Step 7: Generate the DRAFT 1 of a completely new translation rendering using all the summarized findings in verse numbered list.

Step 8: Analyze DRAFT 1 for these criteria to output recommendations:
A) Theological accuracy to global biblical context and chunk context (weight 35%).
B) High modern readability and understanding (weight 35%).
C) Poetic English elegance and phrasing structure (weight 15%).
D) Adherence to original text structure (weight 15%).

Mention highly suggested recommendations for the final rendering in bullet points.

Step 9: Generate a concise and description title for the chunk based on all previous analysis that conveys the core message to the reader.

Step 10: Render Final translation by approving recommendations in Step 8 and following the following formatting rules:
* Use double smart quotes (“ ”) for direct speech or dialogue.
* Use single smart quotes (‘ ’) for quotations or words nested inside double quotes.
* Use straight apostrophes (') for possessives and contractions (e.g., Jesus').
* Keep the JSON formatting as recommended between " " straight double quotes.

```final_translation_json
{
  "chunk": "[Your Passage Reference]",
  "chunk_title": "[Section Title]",
  "verses": [
    {"verse": 1, "text": "Verse one..."},
    {"verse": 2, "text": "Verse two..."},
    ...
  ]
}
```

Step 11: Concise Justification Report as Markdown Table  
For each key word/phrase, concisely summarize the justification for its selection, referencing prior steps analysis. Synthesize all session data for each decision.

Output as a markdown table:

| Word/Phrase   | Justification                      |
|---------------|------------------------------------|
| ...           | [summary based on analysis]        |
| ...           | ...                                |
---
chunk_id_306LBKEMT
1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham:
2. Abraham fathered Isaac, Isaac fathered Jacob, and Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers.
3. Judah fathered Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez fathered Hezron, and Hezron fathered Ram.
4. Ram fathered Amminadab, Amminadab fathered Nahshon, and Nahshon fathered Salmon.
5. Salmon fathered Boaz by Rahab, Boaz fathered Obed by Ruth, Obed fathered Jesse,
6. and Jesse fathered David the king. David the king fathered Solomon [by her who had been] the [wife of] Uriah.
7. Solomon fathered Rehoboam, Rehoboam fathered Abijah, and Abijah fathered Asa.
8. Asa fathered Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat fathered Joram, and Joram fathered Uzziah.
9. Uzziah fathered Jotham, Jotham fathered Ahaz, and Ahaz fathered Hezekiah.
10. Hezekiah fathered Manasseh, Manasseh fathered Amon, and Amon fathered Josiah.
11. Josiah fathered Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the captivity in Babylon.
12. And after the captivity in Babylon, Jeconiah fathered Shealtiel, and Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel.
13. Zerubbabel fathered Abiud, Abiud fathered Eliakim, and Eliakim fathered Azor.
14. Azor fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Achim, and Achim fathered Eliud.
15. Eliud fathered Eleazar, Eleazar fathered Matthan, and Matthan fathered Jacob.
16. And Jacob fathered Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus who is called Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham till David [were] fourteen generations, from David until the captivity in Babylon [were] fourteen generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ [were] fourteen generations.

chunk_id_777ELUBSB
1. This is the record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:
2. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers.
3. Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram.
4. Ram was the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon.
5. Salmon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, Obed the father of Jesse,
6. and Jesse the father of David the king. Next: David was the father of Solomon by Uriah’s wife,
7. Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asa.
8. Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah.
9. Uzziah was the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah.
10. Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah,
11. and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon.
12. After the exile to Babylon: Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
13. Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor.
14. Azor was the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud.
15. Eliud was the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of Matthan, Matthan the father of Jacob,
16. and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
17. In all, then, there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Christ.

chunk_id_528KHBCSB
1. An account of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham:
2. Abraham fathered Isaac, Isaac fathered Jacob, Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers,
3. Judah fathered Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez fathered Hezron, Hezron fathered Aram,
4. Aram fathered Amminadab, Amminadab fathered Nahshon, Nahshon fathered Salmon,
5. Salmon fathered Boaz by Rahab, Boaz fathered Obed by Ruth, Obed fathered Jesse,
6. and Jesse fathered King David. David fathered Solomon by Uriah’s wife,
7. Solomon fathered Rehoboam, Rehoboam fathered Abijah, Abijah fathered Asa,
8. Asa fathered Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat fathered Joram, Joram fathered Uzziah,
9. Uzziah fathered Jotham, Jotham fathered Ahaz, Ahaz fathered Hezekiah,
10. Hezekiah fathered Manasseh, Manasseh fathered Amon, Amon fathered Josiah,
11. and Josiah fathered Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon.
12. After the exile to Babylon Jeconiah fathered Shealtiel, Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel,
13. Zerubbabel fathered Abiud, Abiud fathered Eliakim, Eliakim fathered Azor,
14. Azor fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Achim, Achim fathered Eliud,
15. Eliud fathered Eleazar, Eleazar fathered Matthan, Matthan fathered Jacob,
16. and Jacob fathered Joseph the husband of Mary, who gave birth to Jesus who is called the Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations; and from David until the exile to Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the exile to Babylon until the Christ, fourteen generations.

chunk_id_488IMJESV
1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
2. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
3. and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram,
4. and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon,
5. and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse,
6. and Jesse the father of David the king.
And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah,
7. and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph,
8. and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah,
9. and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
10. and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah,
11. and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
12. And after the deportation to Babylon: Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
13. and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
14. and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
15. and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
16. and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ fourteen generations.

chunk_id_887KKWNIV
1. This is the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah the son of David, the son of Abraham:
2. Abraham was the father of Isaac,
Isaac the father of Jacob,
Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
3. Judah the father of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar,
Perez the father of Hezron,
Hezron the father of Ram,
4. Ram the father of Amminadab,
Amminadab the father of Nahshon,
Nahshon the father of Salmon,
5. Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab,
Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth,
Obed the father of Jesse,
6. and Jesse the father of King David.
David was the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah’s wife,
7. Solomon the father of Rehoboam,
Rehoboam the father of Abijah,
Abijah the father of Asa,
8. Asa the father of Jehoshaphat,
Jehoshaphat the father of Jehoram,
Jehoram the father of Uzziah,
9. Uzziah the father of Jotham,
Jotham the father of Ahaz,
Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
10. Hezekiah the father of Manasseh,
Manasseh the father of Amon,
Amon the father of Josiah,
11. and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon.
12. After the exile to Babylon:
Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel,
Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
13. Zerubbabel the father of Abihud,
Abihud the father of Eliakim,
Eliakim the father of Azor,
14. Azor the father of Zadok,
Zadok the father of Akim,
Akim the father of Elihud,
15. Elihud the father of Eleazar,
Eleazar the father of Matthan,
Matthan the father of Jacob,
16. and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, and Mary was the mother of Jesus who is called the Messiah.
17. Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Messiah.

chunk_id_520KKXNJB
1. Roll of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham:
2. Abraham fathered Isaac, Isaac fathered Jacob, Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers,
3. Judah fathered Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar, Perez fathered Hezron, Hezron fathered Ram,
4. Ram fathered Amminadab, Amminadab fathered Nahshon, Nahshon fathered Salmon,
5. Salmon fathered Boaz, whose mother was Rahab, Boaz fathered Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed fathered Jesse;
6. and Jesse fathered King David. David fathered Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah's wife,
7. Solomon fathered Rehoboam, Rehoboam fathered Abijah, Abijah fathered Asa,
8. Asa fathered Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat fathered Joram, Joram fathered Uzziah,
9. Uzziah fathered Jotham, Jotham fathered Ahaz, Ahaz fathered Hezekiah,
10. Hezekiah fathered Manasseh, Manasseh fathered Amon, Amon fathered Josiah;
11. and Josiah fathered Jechoniah and his brothers. Then the deportation to Babylon took place.
12. After the deportation to Babylon: Jechoniah fathered Shealtiel, Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel,
13. Zerubbabel fathered Abiud, Abiud fathered Eliakim, Eliakim fathered Azor,
14. Azor fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Achim, Achim fathered Eliud,
15. Eliud fathered Eleazar, Eleazar fathered Matthan, Matthan fathered Jacob;
16. and Jacob fathered Joseph the husband of Mary; of her was born Jesus who is called Christ.
17. The sum of generations is therefore: fourteen from Abraham to David; fourteen from David to the Babylonian deportation; and fourteen from the Babylonian deportation to Christ.

chunk_id_227EINNKJ
1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham:
2. Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers.
3. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram.
4. Ram begot Amminadab, Amminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon.
5. Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab, Boaz begot Obed by Ruth, Obed begot Jesse,
6. and Jesse begot David the king.
David the king begot Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah.
7. Solomon begot Rehoboam, Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa.
8. Asa begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah.
9. Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah.
10. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah.
11. Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers about the time they were carried away to Babylon.
12. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Shealtiel, and Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel.
13. Zerubbabel begot Abiud, Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor.
14. Azor begot Zadok, Zadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud.
15. Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob.
16. And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus who is called Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, from David until the captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are fourteen generations.

chunk_id_400JWSLSB
1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:
2. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers.
3. And Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez was the father of Hezron, and Hezron was the father of Ram.
4. And Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon was the father of Salmon.
5. And Salmon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed was the father of Jesse.
6. And Jesse was the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah.
7. And Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam was the father of Abijah, and Abijah was the father of Asa.
8. And Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat was the father of Joram, and Joram was the father of Uzziah.
9. And Uzziah was the father of Jotham, and Jotham was the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah.
10. And Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh was the father of Amon, and Amon was the father of Josiah.
11. And Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
12. And after the deportation to Babylon: Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel.
13. And Zerubbabel was the father of Abihud, and Abihud was the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim was the father of Azor.
14. And Azor was the father of Zadok, and Zadok was the father of Achim, and Achim was the father of Eliud.
15. And Eliud was the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar was the father of Matthan, and Matthan was the father of Jacob.
16. And Jacob was the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
17. Therefore all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations.

chunk_id_417SQMNET
1. This is the record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
2. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
3. Judah the father of Perez and Zerah (by Tamar), Perez the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram,
4. Ram the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father of Nahshon, Nahshon the father of Salmon,
5. Salmon the father of Boaz (by Rahab), Boaz the father of Obed (by Ruth), Obed the father of Jesse,
6. and Jesse the father of David the king.
David was the father of Solomon (by the wife of Uriah),
7. Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa,
8. Asa the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, Joram the father of Uzziah,
9. Uzziah the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
10. Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah,
11. and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
12. After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah became the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
13. Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, Eliakim the father of Azor,
14. Azor the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, Achim the father of Eliud,
15. Eliud the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of Matthan, Matthan the father of Jacob,
16. and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ, fourteen generations.